---
title: "Got Git?"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Git
  - Shell
  - PowerShell
  - 100DaysToOffload
toc: true
header:
  overlay_image: /images/posts/git.webp
  overlay_filter: 0.5 
  og_image: /images/posts/git.webp
---

Git is a great way to keep track of programming changes. However, some of the commands can get overwhelming and just need a simple way to get changes synced with a remote repository. 

<!--more-->

For repetition of tasks you can create a file you always run or add to your [profile]({% link _posts/2020-03-03-create-powershell-profile.md %}) to name a few. Working in both Windows and Linux, I wrote a simple solution that works for me. For this solution I wanted a way to check the repositry I was going to push too and see the changed files without adding git just yet. Then if all looks right, then we enter our commit message, and push. 

## Overview of whats needed

1. Step 1: Check remote repository
    - `git remote -v`
2. Step 2: Show changes. `-n` is a dry run
    - I usually add all files and not specific changes, also depends on the project. For a new post, adding all files is best.
    -  `git add . -n`
3. Step 3: Prompt for message to use for the commit
    - `git commit -m "Message here!"`
4. Step 4: Add all files and push to the branch
    -  `git add .`
    - `git push origin main`

## Windows solution
For the Windows solution, this is a batch file that does the trick. With PowerShell we could add this to the profile as a function as well.

{% highlight batch %}
@echo off
cls

REM show the remote location branch
echo Does this look correct?
echo.
git remote -v

echo.
REM show the changed fils
echo Here are the changed files
git add . -n

echo.
REM set a commit message if all is good
set /p message="Enter commit Message: "
echo Here is your message: %message%

REM add files and commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "%message%"
git push origin master
echo Update complete! 
{% endhighlight %}

## Linux solution

I have this added to my `bash_aliases` as a function and accomplishes the same thing. 

{% highlight bash %}
function gitpush(){
    git remote -v
    read -p "Do you want to proceed? (yes/no) " -t 10 yn

    if [ -z "$yn" ]
    then
          echo -e "\nerror: no response detected"
          exit 1
    fi

    case $yn in 
	    y ) echo ok, we will proceed;;
	    n ) echo exiting...;
		    exit;;
	    * ) echo invalid response;
		    exit 1;;
    esac

    echo Here are the changed files
    git add . -n

    read -p "Enter the commit message: " message
    git add .
    git commit -S -m "$message"
    git push origin master
    read -p "Push Completed!"
}
{% endhighlight %}

This is just a simple solution that works for me and small changes might occur over time. 

Check out the snippets as well:
- [Windows Solution](https://codeberg.org/cjerrington/snippets/src/branch/main/cmd/git-push.bat)
- [Linux Solution](https://codeberg.org/cjerrington/snippets/src/branch/main/bash/git-push.sh)

I’m publishing this as part of [100 Days To Offload](/100DaysToOffload/). You can join in yourself by visiting [100DaysToOffload.com](https://100DaysToOffload.com).
{: .notice--primary}